## Digital Musicology – Mathieu Clavel
# Milestone 1 – Project Proposal – Looking at the colours of Afghan art music

## Research Question

At the crossroads of the cultural empires of Persia and India lies Afghanistan, a wild land with a magical art music which I have been studying for the last three years on the lute rubab, considered the national instrument of Afghanistan. For obvious reasons I am very interested to conduct my project on this specific music, but even more considered how anything bringing attention to this music is important, as this tradition is far from being healthy and well looked after; not only modernity but over 40 years of turmoil within the country, including a period of complete ban during the late 90s- early 2000s under Talebân rule, and the general situation of the country today, have taken a serious toll on its integrity

Afghan art music is, much like all art music of its neighbours, a modal art music based on the knowledge of a complex musical system which melodic hemisphere is called Raga, a theory borrowed from North Indian Hindustani music but etymologically a Persian word meaning colours. This knowledge, usually developed through the apprenticeship of the music as an inherent process of interiorising the structures from the teaching of a master, or Ustad, is seriously endangered and already scarcely available, as there are hardly masters left. However, I believe part of this knowledge is to be harvested from the past, saved and transmitted in order for the tradition to live on and evolve from its intact richness, not a pale depiction of what it used to be. My work is an attempt at using digital methods to explicit this knowledge of Afghan music and, in a way, hopefully help this beautiful art which I cherish.

In the possible outcomes of this work, I see, first and foremost, the first endeavour of digital musicology in the direction of Afghan music. It may have resulting applications in MIR, transcription and synthesis of Afghan music, and most interestingly in my opinion a strong potential for a valuable tool to accompany the study of this endangered art form.

## Concepts and Data

The basic aim of this project is to train from notated music a model to accurately recognise the common modes used in Afghan art music, capturing in a way the essence of these modes and providing interesting insights over them. Potential extensions include identifiying the most relevant phrases per mode, analysis of rythmic variations in the performance of these compositions (a key aspect of this music, specifically of the instrument rubab) and potentially exploring and generating those variations of compositions in MIDI. An extraordinary extension would be to consider audio data, although I seriously doubt that it could be reasonable to do so in the next two months.

Many musical concepts are to be considered, which operationalisation lies in the measures and methods I will use : modes, pitch and melody, pattern identification, rythmic cycle… Given the late blooming of my project idea, a few more days will be precious in clearly defining the core musical concepts of my project.

## Dataset
The dataset I plan to use is partly assembled already. The central piece is a document provided by the most notable and knowledgeable ethnomusicologist specialist of Afghanistan, Dr. John Baily of Goldsmith University of London, with 42 pages of compositions in 15 modes (~5000 notes). However, this document in incomplete in some regard (missing one of the prominent mode of Afghan music, Bhairavi), and I will contact him to see whether he could and would contribute with some more compositions. Besides, I have roughly 80-100 more notated compositions from my own apprenticeship, and several documents from diverse source containing notated music. This would make the notated corpus which I plan to work on first. If I were able to work with audio sources, then that would amount to roughly ~100gb, ~4000 recordings of (mostly unannotated) Afghan music.
## Methods

The literature shows abundant use of Markov models or fuzzy logic, which make obvious sense since modes are usually identified by sets of defining succession of notes, but I would be rather interested to work with standard Machine Learning classifiers. Working with symbolic data, I assume I would need some NLP tools as well (n-grams, co-occurrence matrices..). I need a little more time to properly survey the methods.

If I decide to venture into signal processing, I could potentially use tools (for instance, the VAMP plugins) to extract melodies, since Afghan art music is not a polyphonic music, and perhaps automatically transcribed them at least at a granularity that would allow for the mode detection. Ideally deep learning might work on my audio dataset but once again, it is perhaps not reasonable for this project.


## Literature
There is a vast literature covering aspect of my project, from the technical side (machine learning or signal processing applied to musicology,…) down to the ethnomusicological one (studies on Afghan or Indian music,…) which I will look strongly into. The task of recognising modes within a bound particular system has been done several times on both audio and symbolic data; for publications relevant to the technical aspect, see Raga Identification Techniques for Classifying Indian Classical Music: A Survey, K. C. Waghmare, B. A. Sonkamble, 2017 ; Comparison of ML classifiers for Raga recognition, H. Sharma, R. S. Bali, 2015 ; A computational analysis of Turkish makam music based on a probabilistic characterization of segmented phrases, B. Bozkurt, B. Karaçalı, 2015.
Yet it  has  not been done yet in the case of Afghan music. For historical reasons, Afghan art music has largely drawn its theory, albeit loosely, from the Hindustani art music of India. It could be interesting to test our methodology on Hindustani music as well, in order to see whether there are significant differences that allow one to claim the existence of a properly Afghan modal system that wouldn’t be a sheer duplicate of the North Indian raga system. Moreover I haven’t seen much work being based on neural networks, which sounds extremely appealing especially for audio data, although it is known to be heavily resource demanding and time consuming.
I have not yet been able to delve thoroughly in the literature, and my use of notated (symbolic) music so far has been very limited – mostly as an aide-mémoire. I might need help in how to handle properly this data. Concerning audio signal processing, I have to more investigation to see whether it is actually realisable within the scope of this project.

## Team members
To finish with, I reckon being the only one involved in this project so far. Because of my strong interest for music in general and this music specifically, which my colleagues are absolutely not aware of, I am willing if allowed to engage in this project on my own.
